13.4.2022

Since the last checkpoint, I have been working mainly on element groups (making and viewing them in GUI),
configuring properties of elements to be drawn (border width, brush size and hardness, font size),
and modifying those properties from the GUI after they have been drawn.
Just today I implemented saving files and started on loading files.

I have been testing these new functionalities through the GUI, but I still have not made any unit tests.
Perhaps I'll write some unit tests this week or the next, although testing in the GUI has worked pretty
well for me, as the program is so tied to the graphics anyway.

I think I have used about 10 hours on this project in the last two weeks. I am more or less on schedule,
though I have not implemented loading files yet, which I planned to have done by 10.4.


31.3.2022

During the last two weeks I have implemented functionality for drawing paint strokes and writing text on a drawing,
as well as selecting and moving elements of the drawing. The GUI has also seen a lot of progress, but all parts of it do not
work quite yet with the program.

I have not had any major problems since my last report,
although working with ScalaFX is still rather painful.

I am still on schedule. Between 16.3. and today, I have used some 20 hours on this project.
According to my schedule only 13 hours would have been needed, though.

I should start working on file management next, but a requirement in A Plus is puzzling me.
It says "Serialization may not be used in saving files."
According to Wikipedia serialization is the process of translating an object into a format and reconstructed later,
which apparently means that I can't, for example, save a rectangle in JSON like this:
{
  "type": "rectangle",
  "colour": [61, 106, 173, 100],
  "border-colour": [0, 0, 0, 100],
  "hidden": false,
  "border": 3,
  "rotation": 170,
  "origin": [82, 23],
  "width": 1920,
  "height": 1080
}
This had been, however, the way I had planned to do file management (see my technical plan).
I don't quite see what alternatives to serialization I have apart from saving the drawing as an image,
which in part seems contradictory to the requirement of using "some text-based format".

Could you provide me with some tips on this matter, Tuan?
Should we have a Zoom meeting about this?


16.3.2022

The project is making good progress.
Currently, the user can draw (using ShapeTool object) rectangles, squares, ellipses and circles (of Shape class)
from the GUI (which I've made with Scene Builder / FXML and CSS)
and the drawing (Drawing class) can be organized on multiple layers (Layer class).

Initially I was having a bit of trouble with Git.
I was tracking some environment dependent Idea and SBT files,
which caused issues because I'm working on two computers using different OSs.
Now I've got it fixed.

Understanding JavaFX components and learning to use Scene Builder took quite a while,
and I had some trouble connecting a ScalaFX app and controller with FXML.
I have figured out that too now.

I'm on schedule progresswise, although timewise I have used
10 more hours than I had planned to get to this point.
I've used 30 hours, but my schedule says only 20 hours would have been needed.